# Warband-to-Bannerlord-Scene-Converter
Uses output of Swyter's MaB Tools unpacker [https://github.com/Swyter/mab-tools] to convert Warband Scene information into something compatible with Bannerlord's.  Reads scene entities and allows users to map a bannerlord equivalent, with rotation and positional adjustments. Entity mapping persists in an xml, so that as more scenes are converted, less work needs to be done every time.

Map Convesion Workflow:
- First, unpack the original Warband scene (.sco) with Swyter's mab tools, specifically mab_sco_unpack.py: https://github.com/Swyter/mab-tools
- Run the WarbandToBannerlordConverter.exe
- Use the Unpacked Files Processor by selecting the folder generated by the mab_sco_unpack.py and pressing Convert files.
- PNGs for the heightmap and materialmaps from the Warband scene will be generated in that folder. A navmesh prefab will be generated if one originally existed.
- Note the Z Scale and Z Offset. They will be needed when importing the heightmap.
- Make a fresh Bannerlord scene in the editor
- Get the map dimensions from the terrain code of the map. For Native and mods, those are found in the scenes.txt file. An example looks like this:
    scn_random_scene_steppe random_scene_steppe 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x0000000229602800000691a400003efe00004b34000059be
      0
      0
     outer_terrain_steppe
    The above example would be a 240 x 240 map.
- If you do not have the terrain code for the scene, you can still reverse it from the terrain elevation itself. The dimensions of the PNG files are directly proportional to the terrain size. Warband had 4 common polygon sizes: 2, 3, 4, 5. Simply multiply the dimensions by each of these sizes and you'll find the right one.
    A map that gives you 67 x 167 dimension png could be 134 x 334, 201 x 501, 268 x 668, or 335 x 835 meters in size. There's a tiny amount of info lost in the conversion, but you can easily infer that the original size of the map must have been 200 x 500
    As far as I can tell, there's no easy way to extract the real dimensions from the .sco file itself.
 - Generate the terrain to match the original map dimensions
 - Import the layer_ground_elevation.png as the heightmap.
 - Use the Z Scale and Z Offset when importing the heightmap.
 - Create a new layer terrain paint layer and have it selected.
 - Go back to the terrain generation and import one of the terrain layers as a material map.
 - Assign the name and texture of that material map and repeat. You will likely need to reference the original warband map to get the layer order correct.
 - Set the Water Level to 0.
 - Now is a good time to import the navmesh if there is any.
    Move the generated navmesh prefab (scene_name)_navmesh.bin to your \steamapps\common\Mount & Blade II Bannerlord\Modules\(Whatever your module name is)\NavMeshPrefabs folder.
    Create an empty entity and set its rotations and positions all to 0. Name it whatever your navmesh bin is named.
    Go to the Navigation Mesh Panel, Generation Tools, and press Import faces from prefabs. Paste the name of your navmesh bin in the next two dialogues since you've just set them to have the same name.
    The Navmesh should now be imported into the scene.
- Save the scene.
- Now you can begin the asset mapping in the GUI. Point the Mission JSON to the mission_objects.json in the folder containing all the unpacked and converted files. Point the Scene XSCNE to your freshly made Bannerlord scene.
- Follow the GUI Explanation below for information on how to use it and start converting the scene! Remember, the more you do, the faster it'll continue to be as you convert more maps. The plan is to share our asset_mappings.xml so that everyone who uses this tool can rapidly reach a point where all we need to do is press the inject button and make adjustments as we see fit.
- Once you've converted everything in the map, do whatever cleanup is needed. The tools greatly helps and the more precise your mapping, the less errors there are to correct, but it is at the end of the day a Warband scene. It would greatly benefit from some minor sprucing up that doesn't take away from the original feel of the map. For example, flora is a big thing missing from most Warband scenes due to how annoying it is/was to do.

GUI Explanation:
- Unpacked Files Processor: Select the folder created by Swyter's mab tools mab_sco_unpack.py and press convert files to convert the files into something usable by the Bannerlord editor
- Z Scale and Z Offset: Needed for importing the heightmap (layer_ground_elevation.png)
- Mission JSON: Point to the mission_objects.json generated by the unpacker. This is your entity list with their original positions, rotations, and scales in the Warband scene.
- Scene XSCENE: The Bannerlord scene file you are converting to. This will be edited by the tool.
- Entity list (left box): Shows all unique entities in the warband scene that need to be mapped to for the conversion.
- Bannerlord Prefab ID: The name of the Prefab/asset that the Warband entity you selected on the list to the left will be converted to. Custom prefabs are fine as long as it's available to your editor. Custom assets from your mod are fine, again as long as its in the editor. The plan for prefabs is to start including them in this repo so others can share their mappings with each other.
- The Global Position Offset: should almost never be used. It should only be used for props that will always only or overwhelmingly be rotated in the same position (e.g upright). As implied by the name, the offset is global. So if you shift a prop 1 meter forward in the x axis, it will always be 1 meter forward in the x axis, everywhere in current map and in future maps.
- Global Rotation Offset: Used to adjust the rotation of the Bannerlord entity so that it matches its mapped Warband counterpart
- Global Scale Multipler: Modifies the scale of the Bannerlord prop. Use to match with the Warband Counterpart. This part can be tricky and take time to get just right. I suggest eyeballing it with a first pass and refine it later as you add more props and import/convert other things to act as an anchor. For example, certain props that are always placed at ground level can be used to give a sense of scale or an imported navmesh can be used to get the footprint of many props. Negative scale can be applied, just like in Warband and Bannerlord.
- Origin Point offset: Creates an empty parent entity for your selected mapping so that it doesn't have to be done manually and saved as a prefab. This is the best way to do position adjustments as it enables one to match the origin point of the Bannerlord Entity with its Warband Counterpart. That way, if a rotation is applied, it does so from the correct spot.
- Save Current Mapping: Manually save changes to the mapping. The tool does so automatically, but it doesn't hurt to press the button if you prefer.
- Inject All Into Scene: Injects the mapping into the selected Scene.xscene. Open the scene again without saving to see changes. The inject button automatically saves its changes. If you want to make a change, adding things is no problem, but changes to the mapped entities must be done with the GUI or wait until all of the assets are finished mapping.


Notes for users:
- Remember to look at adding meshes to empty entities to make certain props. There's a lot of meshes in the game that aren't added to pre-made prefabs.
- There is no actual requirement that the new Bannerlord prefabs actually match the old Warband props. Take advantage of this if you're converting an old map that had some limitation you experienced when you originally made it. For example, I had to use Gondor wall assets on a mediterranean island because it was the most complete set available for what I wanted to do at the time. Now I'm mapping those props to Empire assets.
- Let me know if there's anything that can be done to improve the tool that's not already listed below! (except for automated entity mapping, don't ask me for that. I thought about it when first making this tool and decided it wasn't worth the effort, see below)

TO-DO:
- The _cropped.pngs generated can likely be removed. Need to test on more maps before I determine this. It was based on my first test unluckily being a corrupted map that had a ghost layer of terrain mixed in with the actual terrain.
- Need to include a folder for placing prefabs made for mapping the entities so that they can be shared between those using this tool.
- Pasting values into the GUI does not cause the auto-save to fire until another field is selected.
- Need to make mission objects json folder auto populate based on unpack folder
- Need to make gui keep info of last session like folders used so that it doesn't have to be re-assigned every time it's opened.
- I don't think there's anything technically stopping us from doing the same the other way now? Could add functionality to the tool to convert Bannerlord to Warband assets in the future.

NOT TO-DO:
- Automated Entity Mapping
  I think it is technically possible.
  Could sort by name semantic similarity first to create short-lists of potential mappings.
  The OpenBrf tool for Warband and Tpac tool for Bannerlord could probably be used to generate a bunch of 3d objects, which could be compared against each other with some sort of algorithm to find the most similar meshes from the short-list.
  If someone wants to take on that challenge, be my guest. It would extend far beyond Warband and Bannerlord Conversions for porting purposes.
